Create FS-1332 - `assert` keyword enhancement (#814)
fsharp/FSharpLangDesign: RFCs/FS-1332-assert-keyword-enhancement.md

# F# RFC FS-1332 - `assert` keyword enhancement

> The design suggestion [`assert` keyword: have compiler emit call to `Debug.Assert` overload with CallerArgumentExpression where possible](https://github.com/dotnet/fsharp/issues/18489) has been marked "approved in principle".

Reviewer: What does `where possible` mean here?

Author: That is the original title

This RFC covers the detailed proposal for this suggestion.

- [x] [Suggestion](https://github.com/dotnet/fsharp/issues/18489)
- [x] Approved in principle
- [x] [Implementation](https://github.com/dotnet/fsharp/pull/17519)
- [ ] [Discussion](https://github.com/fsharp/fslang-design/discussions/FILL-ME-IN)

# Summary

When an `assert` expression failed, it will shows the text of the expression in the exception message.

# Motivation

> When the `assert` expression failed, it does not provide the details of the expression, but the plain `System.Diagnostics.Debug.Assert` does.

Reviewer: What does `plain ... does` mean here?

Author: The expression updated

# Detailed design

`assert <bool expression>` will be translated into `System.Diagnostics.Debug.Assert(<bool expression>, "<bool expression>")`.

```fsharp
// The below 2 lines are equivalent
assert (1 + 1 = 2)

> System.Diagnostics.Debug.Assert((1 + 1 = 2), "(1 + 1 = 2)")

Author: Yes but this is to say the first line will be translated into the second line. Not all things are equivalent.

# Prior art

With [supporting `[<CallerArgumentExpressionAttribute>]`](./FS-1149-support-CallerArgumentExpression.md), the `System.Diagnostics.Debug.Assert(<bool expression>)` can show the text of the expression in the exception message. This RFC is making `assert` expression works the same way.

# Compatibility

Please address all necessary compatibility questions:

* Is this a breaking change?
    > No
* What happens when previous versions of the F# compiler encounter this design addition as source code?
    > It will works the same as before.
* What happens when previous versions of the F# compiler encounter this design addition in compiled binaries?
    > It will works the same as before.
* If this is a change or extension to FSharp.Core, what happens when previous versions of the F# compiler encounter this construct?
    > N/A
# Interop

* What happens when this feature is consumed by another .NET language?
    > It will works the same as before.
* Are there any planned or proposed features for another .NET language (e.g., [C#](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang)) that we would want this feature to interoperate with?
    > N/A

# Pragmatics

## Performance

> This feature may impact the performance when the code file is too large and has many `assert` expressions, since it needs get substrings from the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature may impact the compilation speed when the code file is too large and has many `assert` expressions, since it needs get substrings from the file.
```

With performance, please always differentiate between compile time / design time / runtime ...
